The collider two rd component.
In this video, we'll cover the collider, two RD component and its most important properties.
We'll also play with this component in the editor.
Collider is the component that defines the shape of an object for the purposes of physical collisions.
As this diagram shows, we can have a game object with multiple components.
In this example, we have a transform and rigid body, as we've discussed in previous videos.
And then we also have a collider with both a rigid body and a collider.
We can think of this object being physical in this game world and being able to interact and collide
with others.
Types of Colliders.
The most popular Circle Collider and box Collider as shown in the pictures they give you the area you'd
expect a circle and a box, and that carries most of the examples that you'd want in a game.
However, there's a variety of other ones for shapes that don't quite fit in one of those two polygons
and Edge capsule.
And sometimes you want to have multiple colliders inside the same object.
Perhaps the shape of the object is quite complex, so you could add other colliders together using the
composite collider too.
DD If we were to select a game object in the scene with a collider, we can open up the inspector window
and look at all the components.
Let's browse the properties of an example Box Collider to DD.
There's a lot of properties we'll focus on just a few.
The most important, first of all, material physics material describes the friction and bouncy ness
of collisions.
We'll cover this in a later section, but I want to note here that we've already seen this material
property inside rigid body.
So why does it exist in two places?
Well, typically, most commonly we want to add it only to the rigid body.
However, if you have multiple colliders and you want to have unique materials per collider, you can
also put it inside the box collider instead of the rigid body.
Another important property is the is trigger boolean.
This determines if the collider behaves as a trigger.
The default value is false.
It behaves as a solid object.
It collides with other objects and it dispatches the on collision events.
For example, did the bullet hit the character?
However, some situations we want is trigger to be true.
This means it does not collide with other objects and it dispatches a different event called the on
Trigger.
And you could ask yourself in a game, did the hero enter the cave?
We want to allow the character to enter the cave, but using a trigger, we're able to get a notification
so we can have some game event occur.
When he enters by default, Unity usually places the collider to match the size of the graphics.
However, we're free to adjust the Collider's position and scale.
For example, you may want the collider to be larger than the graphics, so it detects collisions a
little earlier.
Or maybe you want the collider to be smaller than the graphics, so it's a bit more forgiving.
Maybe it gives a game a different difficulty that you like.
You can choose to edit the size of the collider using the edit collider button to adjust visually,
or you can adjust individual properties of offset size edge radius and you can adjust them numerically.
Let's look at a demo In the two D Pyramid scene will select a crate.
We'll see the collider in the inspector window.
We can edit the collider visually and numerically to give a feel for both of those options.
And finally, we'll play with the is trigger value setting it true and false to observe the result.
Let's open up the two D pyramid and we'll select one of the crates in the scene view.
And we see here that we're able to edit the collider and then adjust either numerically.
And we can see in the scene view it's moving.
The positioning of the offset or the size.
Or we can actually use our mouse down here and do it visually.
That's it.
In the next video two rd Effectors.